# PROJECT: SAT-Based Sudoku Solving
Subject: CSC320 | Professor: Bruce Kapron | Summer-2018

## Group Members:
Zhi Lin (V00767771) <br/>
Zhaocheng Li (V00832770) <br/>
Jiawen Jiang (V00816251)<br/>
Jiaquan Zhang (V00836047)<br/>
Tony Tang (V00833347)<br/>
Ching Hsuan Hu (V00841056)<br/>

## File Specification:
Files|Description
---|---
sud2sat.py|Basic Task, read sodoku and gnerate folders containing **miniSAT CNF-formatted inputs and outputs** respectively.
sat2sud.py|Basic Task, read the outputs generated from previous task and generate a folder containing the **solutions to the puzzles**
run_timer.py|Run sud2sat.py and sat2sud.py in order and test time spent respectively, and concatenate to total time used.
README.md|Contains the necessary information for the project and orientation to the files.
p096_sudoku.txt|Provided by professor as sudoku puzzle exanmples to test your SAT-based sudoku solver.
top95.txt|Provided by professor as hard inputs to test your solver in the extended tasks.
4x4grid.txt|A single 4x4 sudoku puzzle input to test the flexibility for puzzles of any length.
intructions|Contains the project specifications
basic_screenshot|A folder containing the screenshots of minisat encoding problem statistics for input `p096_sudoku.txt`
Grid_CNF4x4|A folder **generated by sud2sat.py** to contain the CNF-formatted inputs for miniSAT if the **read file is 4x4grid.txt.**
Grid_CNF|A folder **generated by sud2sat.py** to contain the CNF-formatted inputs for miniSAT if the **read file is p096_sudoku.txt.**
Grid_CNF_extended|A folder **generated by sud2sat.py** to contain the CNF-formatted inputs for miniSAT if the **read file is top95.txt.**
miniSAT_encoded|A folder **generated in sud2sat.py** contains the encoded files by miniSAT with input **argument "p096_sudoku.txt"**
miniSAT_encoded4x4|A folder **generated in sud2sat.py** contains the encoded files by miniSAT with input **argument "4x4grid.txt"**
miniSAT_hard_encoded|A folder **generated in sud2sat.py** contains the encoded files by miniSAT with input **argument "top95.txt"**
Sudoku_hard_solved|A folder **generated in sat2sud.py** contains the solutions to sudoku puzzles **with argument "miniSAT_hard_encoded"**
Sudoku_solved|A folder **generated in sat2sud.py** contains the solutions to sudoku puzzles **with argument "miniSAT_encoded"**
Sudoku_solved4x4|A folder **generated in sat2sud.py** contains the solutions to sudoku puzzles **with argument "miniSAT_encoded4x4"**

## Executions
**Notice:** all the sudoku puzzles in this project must be in the format of example inputs. And the unknown grid will be marked either ".", "*", or "?".

**Notice:** all the output folders doesn't need to be deleted manully everytime the execution is repeated. Those folder will be automatically over-written accordingly by the next execution with the choice of input text file.

file executed|Command|Argument|Output|Property
---|---|---|---|---
***run_timer.py***|`python run_timer.py [file name]` or `python3 run_timer.py [file name]`|`[file name]` we have three files available: ***top95.txt***, ***4x4grid.txt*** (all for extended task), and ***p096_sudoku.txt*** (for basic task).|two folders, one (***Grid_CNF4x4/Grid_CNF/Grid_CNF_extended***) that contains miniSAT CNF-format inputs; another (***miniSAT_encoded4x4/miniSAT_encoded/miniSAT_hard_encoded***) that contains the miniSAT endcoded files, respectively and accordingly to the argument; and time |basic and extended tasks mixed; available to process sudoku puzzles of any length.

## Basic Tasks
The way of executing buth `sud2sat.py` and `sat2sud.py` has been mentioned in last section. So are their input arguments and outputs;

## Extended task #1&2: Entended encoing to hard input `top95.txt`; Alternative to minimal encoding using `top95.txt`
There is no additional programs to the extended tasks, you still have to use `run_timer.py` with arguemnt `top95.txt` are the program will produce the right outputs including solutions and relevant statistics on terminal.

## Extended task #3: nxn-sized puzzles
No additional programs, the original `sud2sat.py` and `sat2sud.py` are designed to handle sudoku puzzles of any length with the premise that the formatting of input puzzles is similar as ones of puzzles given by the professor. So the execution of `run_timer.py` originally handle puzzles of any length with right formatting.
